README.md, before:

# `cppdlr`: Imaginary time calculations using the discrete Lehmann representation

[![build](https://github.com/flatironinstitute/cppdlr/workflows/build/badge.svg?branch=main)](https://github.com/flatironinstitute/cppdlr/actions?query=workflow%3Abuild)

Authors: [Jason Kaye](https://users.flatironinstitute.org/~jkaye/), [Nils
Wentzell](https://github.com/Wentzell), and [Hugo U. R.
Strand](https://github.com/HugoStrand) (2023)

`cppdlr` is a C++ library implementing the discrete Lehmann representation (DLR) of
imaginary time single-particle Green's functions and other imaginary time
quantities. For more information on the DLR, see the references below.

Libraries implementing the DLR are available in other languages:

- Python, via [pydlr](https://github.com/jasonkaye/libdlr)
- Fortran, via [libdlr](https://github.com/jasonkaye/libdlr)
- Julia, via [Lehmann.jl](https://github.com/numericaleft/Lehmann.jl)

## References and citation

If you use `cppdlr` in your software or published research works, please cite one, or
all, of the following. Citations help to encourage the development and
maintainence of open-source scientific software.

- This repository: https://github.com/flatironinstitute/cppdlr
- The original reference on the DLR: [Discrete Lehmann representation of imaginary time Green's functions, Jason Kaye, Kun Chen, and Olivier Parcollet, Phys. Rev. B 105, 235115, 2022.](https://journals.aps.org/prb/abstract/10.1103/PhysRevB.105.235115) \[[arXiv:2107.13094](https://arxiv.org/abs/2107.13094)\]
- The companion paper to [libdlr](https://github.com/jasonkaye/libdlr), which
  contains a briefer overview of the DLR: [libdlr: Efficient imaginary time calculations using the discrete
  Lehmann representation, Jason Kaye, Kun Chen, and Hugo U.R. Strand, Comput.
  Phys. Commun. 280, 108458,
  2022.](https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0010465522001771)
  \[[arXiv:2110.06765](https://arxiv.org/abs/2110.06765)\]

## Contact

Please email jkaye@flatironinstitute.org with questions, or post an [issue](https://github.com/flatironinstitute/cppdlr/issues).

## License

`cppdlr` is licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0, for more information see the `LICENSE` file.

Commit message:

updated readme w/ ref to documentation

README.md, after:

# `cppdlr`: Imaginary time calculations using the discrete Lehmann representation

[![build](https://github.com/flatironinstitute/cppdlr/workflows/build/badge.svg?branch=main)](https://github.com/flatironinstitute/cppdlr/actions?query=workflow%3Abuild)

Authors: [Jason Kaye](https://users.flatironinstitute.org/~jkaye/), [Nils
Wentzell](https://github.com/Wentzell), and [Hugo U. R.
Strand](https://github.com/HugoStrand) (2023)

`cppdlr` is a C++ library implementing the discrete Lehmann representation (DLR) of
imaginary time single-particle Green's functions and other imaginary time
quantities. For more information on the DLR, see the references below.

Please see [the documentation](https://flatironinstitute.github.io/cppdlr/) for more information about `cppdlr`.

Libraries implementing the DLR are available in other languages:

- Python, via [pydlr](https://github.com/jasonkaye/libdlr)
- Fortran, via [libdlr](https://github.com/jasonkaye/libdlr)
- Julia, via [Lehmann.jl](https://github.com/numericaleft/Lehmann.jl)

## References and citation

If you use `cppdlr` in your software or published research works, please cite one, or
all, of the following. Citations help to encourage the development and
maintainence of open-source scientific software.

- This repository: https://github.com/flatironinstitute/cppdlr
- The original reference on the DLR: [Discrete Lehmann representation of imaginary time Green's functions, Jason Kaye, Kun Chen, and Olivier Parcollet, Phys. Rev. B 105, 235115, 2022.](https://journals.aps.org/prb/abstract/10.1103/PhysRevB.105.235115) \[[arXiv:2107.13094](https://arxiv.org/abs/2107.13094)\]
- The companion paper to [libdlr](https://github.com/jasonkaye/libdlr), which
  contains a briefer overview of the DLR: [libdlr: Efficient imaginary time calculations using the discrete
  Lehmann representation, Jason Kaye, Kun Chen, and Hugo U.R. Strand, Comput.
  Phys. Commun. 280, 108458,
  2022.](https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0010465522001771)
  \[[arXiv:2110.06765](https://arxiv.org/abs/2110.06765)\]

## Contact

Please email jkaye@flatironinstitute.org with questions, or post an [issue](https://github.com/flatironinstitute/cppdlr/issues).

## License

`cppdlr` is licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0, for more information see the `LICENSE` file.
