doc/examples.rst, before:


.. _examples:

Examples
========

This page gives one step-by-step example of the most basic usage of the DLR
within ``cppdlr``. For a basic overview of the DLR, definitions, and
conventions, please see the :ref:`background page<background>`. 

Further examples, containing thorough documentation of all steps, can be
found in the ``examples`` directory of the repository. The :ref:`list of
examples<listofexamples>` below gives a list of all examples, with brief
descriptions. These examples should serve as a good starting point for writing
your own code using ``cppdlr``.

For the time being, not all use cases are covered by examples in the
``examples`` directory. However, the ``test`` directory of the repository
contains tests of all the components of ``cppdlr``, and these can also serve as
useful examples (though they might not be as user-friendly as the examples in
the ``examples`` directory). Therefore, in the :ref:`list of other
capabilities<listofothercapabilities>` below, we list capabilities of ``cppdlr``
which are not currently covered by examples, and point to the relevant tests in
the ``test`` directory which can serve as examples of these capabilities. This
is a temporary measure, until we have a more comprehensive set of examples.


Example: form a DLR expansion via interpolation, and evaluate it in imaginary time and frequency
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This example follows the example program in the file
``examples/dlr_interpolation.cpp``. You should follow the code in that file as
you read this example. If you see a definition you do not know, or need to look
up a convention, you can find this information on the :ref:`background page<background>`.

We first include the header file ``cppdlr.hpp``, which is
necessary to use ``cppdlr`` functionality, and use the ``cppdlr`` namespace. We
then define an evaluator function, ``gfun``, for an imaginary time Green's
function. In this case, we take a simple example: a Green's function
corresponding to a spectral function which is a discrete sum of delta functions:

.. math::
   
   \rho(\omega) = \sum_{i=1}^N A_i \delta(\omega - a_i).

In this case, we have taken each :math:`A_i` to be a :math:`2 \times 2`
symmetric matrix. Using the Lehmann representation, defined on the
:ref:`background page<background>`, we see that this yields the following imaginary time
Green's function:

.. math::
   
   G(\tau) = \sum_{i=1}^N A_i K(\tau, a_i) \equiv \sum_{i=1}^N A_i \frac{e^{-\tau a_i}}{1+e^{-\beta a_i}}.

There is nothing special about this Green's function, except that it is
convenient for this example because it has a simple analytical form. We also
define an evaluator for the Green's function in fermionic Matsubara frequency
space, which, by direct Fourier transform, is given by

.. math::
   
   G(i \nu_n) = \sum_{i=1}^N A_i K(i \nu_n, a_i) \equiv \sum_{i=1}^N \frac{A_i}{i \nu_n - a_i}.

Next we move to the main program. We first define the 
the inverse temperature :math:`\beta`, the number of orbital indices, which in
this case is 2 since :math:`G` is a :math:`2 \times 2` matrix-valued function,
the DLR cutoff parameter :math:`\Lambda`, and the desired accuracy :math:`\epsilon` of our DLR
expansion. We note that we took all the :math:`a_i` above to be less than 1, so
the spectral width :math:`\omega_{\max}` of the Green's function is less than 1;
therefore, the DLR cutoff parameter :math:`\Lambda = \beta \omega_{\max}` can be
safely set to :math:`\beta`. If the spectral width is unknown, it is recommended
to converge results with respect to :math:`\Lambda`. After this, we set the
number of points at which we will test the accuracy of our DLR expansion, both
in imaginary time and Matsubara frequency.

We now begin to see some of the basic functionality of ``cppdlr``. We first
obtain the DLR frequencies :math:`\omega_l` by calling the function
``build_dlr_rf``, supplying the DLR cutoff parameter and tolerance as input
parameters. We obtain a vector of :math:`r = 31` DLR frequencies, which are
shown below for the given parameters. We note that although ``cppdlr`` works in
non-dimensionalized variables (e.g., we consider :math:`\tau \in [0,1]` rather
than :math:`\tau \in [0,\beta]`), we have converted back to the original
physical variables in all figures on this page.

.. image:: images/dlr_rf.png
   :width: 500px
   :align: center

We next obtain an object of type ``imtime_ops``. This class is responsible for
all imaginary time operations on Green's functions, such as interpolation,
fitting, and convolution, and given a particular set of DLR frequencies,
determined by :math:`\Lambda` and :math:`\epsilon`, you only need one of these.
The vector of DLR imaginary time grid nodes :math:`\tau_k` can be extracted from
this object using the ``get_itnodes`` method.

We next evaluate the Green's function at the DLR imaginary time grid nodes by
calling the evaluator function discussed above. In practice, you would supply
your own Green's function evaluator, which could involve a complicated program.
Below, we plot the Green's function, with the :math:`r = 31` DLR imaginary time
nodes indicated.

.. image:: images/gfun.png
   :width: 500px
   :align: center

Now that we have the values of the Green's function on the DLR imaginary time
grid, :math:`G(\tau_k)`, we can form its DLR expansion by obtaining its DLR
coefficients :math:`\widehat{g}_l` via the ``vals2coefs`` method of the
``imtime_ops`` object. We sometimes call this the interpolation step, since we
are interpolating the Green's function at the DLR nodes using an expansion in
the DLR basis functions :math:`K(\tau, \omega_l)`. In other words, we solve the
linear system

.. math::
   
   \sum_{l=1}^r K(\tau_k, \omega_l) \widehat{g}_l = G(\tau_k)

which constitutes an interpolation problem.

Having obtained the DLR expansion of :math:`G` (characterized by its DLR
coefficients :math:`\widehat{g}_l`), we can now evaluate it at any imaginary
time point :math:`\tau` by simply evaluating the DLR expansion:

.. math::
   
   G(\tau) \approx \sum_{l=1}^r K(\tau, \omega_l) \widehat{g}_l.

This is done using the ``coefs2eval`` method of the ``imtime_ops`` object. Here,
we evaluate the DLR expansion on an equispaced grid of :math:`\tau` points
generated by the function ``eqptsrel`` (this function generates the points in
the *relative* time format used by ``cppdlr``; please see :ref:`the imaginary
time point format section of the Background page<relativeformat>` for details). We also evaluate
the true Green's function, and compare the two. The pointwise error for the
top-left entry of the Green's function, :math:`G_00(\tau)`, is shown below.

.. image:: images/gfun_err_it.png
   :width: 500px
   :align: center

We see that the DLR expansion is correct to within the specified :math:`\epsilon
= 10^{-10}` tolerance. 

Since the Fourier transform of the DLR basis functions are known, we can
directly evaluate the DLR expansion of :math:`G` in the fermionic Matsubara
frequency space:

.. math::
   
   G(i \nu_n) \approx \sum_{l=1}^r K(i \nu_n, \omega_l) \widehat{g}_l.

To do this, we first construct an object of type ``imfreq_ops``. This class is
analogous to the ``imtime_ops`` class, but is responsible for all Matsubara
frequency operations. Here, we use its ``coefs2eval`` method to evaluate the DLR
expansion of :math:`G` at a large set of Matsubara frequencies, which in ``cppdlr``
are characterized by their index :math:`n`. Again comparing to the top-left
entry :math:`G_00(i \nu_n)` of the true Green's
function, we find agreement within the specified :math:`\epsilon = 10^{-10}`
tolerance.

.. image:: images/gfun_err_if.png
   :width: 500px
   :align: center


.. _listofexamples:

List of examples
-----------------

The ``examples`` directory contains the following example programs, which are
documented in detail in the files themselves.

- ``examples/dlr_interpolation.cpp``: form a DLR expansion via interpolation,
  and evaluate it in imaginary time and frequency. This example is described in
  detail above.

.. _listofothercapabilities:

List of other ``cppdlr`` capabilities
-------------------------------------

For ``cppdlr`` use cases which are not covered by examples in the ``examples`` directory,
relevant unit tests in the ``test`` directory can serve as useful examples. We
list several such use cases below.

- Obtain a DLR expansion by fitting to data in imaginary time: see the tests ``imtime_ops.fit_scalar``,
  ``imtime_ops.fit_matrix``, and ``imtime_ops.fit_matrix_cmplx`` in the file ``test/imtime_ops.cpp``. 
- Compute the convolution of two DLR expansions: see the tests 
  ``imtime_ops.convolve_scalar_real``, ``imtime_ops.convolve_scalar_cmplx``,
  ``imtime_ops.convolve_matrix_real``, and ``imtime_ops.convolve_matrix_cmplx``
  in the file ``test/imtime_ops.cpp``.
- Perform a "reflection" operation :math:`G(\tau) \mapsto G(\beta-\tau)` on a
  Green's function: see the test ``imtime_ops.refl_matrix`` in the file
  ``test/imtime_ops.cpp``.
- Obtain a DLR expansion by interpolation on the DLR Matsubara frequency nodes:
  see the tests ``imfreq_ops.interp_scalar`` and ``imfreq_ops.interp_matrix`` in
  the file ``test/imfreq_ops.cpp``.
- Obtain symmetrized DLR grids, and obtain a DLR expansion by interpolation on
  these grids: see the tests ``imtime_ops.interp_matrix_sym_fer`` and
  ``imtime_ops.interp_matrix_sym_bos`` in the file ``test/imtime_ops.cpp`` for
  fermionic and bosonic Green's functions, respectively, on a symmetric
  imaginary time grid. See the tests ``imfreq_ops.interp_matrix_sym_fer`` and
  ``imfreq_ops.interp_matrix_sym_bos`` in the file ``test/imfreq_ops.cpp`` for
  fermionic and bosonic Green's functions, respectively, on a symmetric
  Matsubara frequency grid. All of these tests show how to obtain a symmetric
  set of DLR frequencies.
- Given a fixed self-energy, solve the Dyson equation in imaginary time to
  obtain the Green's function: see the tests ``dyson_it.dyson_vs_ed_real``,
  ``dyson_it.dyson_vs_ed_cmplx``, and ``dyson_it.dyson_bethe`` in the file
  ``test/dyson_it.cpp``.
- Solve the Dyson equation self-consistently in imaginary time, given an
  expression for the self-energy in terms of the Green's function: see the test
  ``dyson_it.dyson_bethe_fpi`` in the file ``test/dyson_it.cpp``.

Commit message:

method to compute tau inner prod of dlr expansions

doc/examples.rst, after:


.. _examples:

Examples
========

This page gives one step-by-step example of the most basic usage of the DLR
within ``cppdlr``. For a basic overview of the DLR, definitions, and
conventions, please see the :ref:`background page<background>`. 

Further examples, containing thorough documentation of all steps, can be
found in the ``examples`` directory of the repository. The :ref:`list of
examples<listofexamples>` below gives a list of all examples, with brief
descriptions. These examples should serve as a good starting point for writing
your own code using ``cppdlr``.

For the time being, not all use cases are covered by examples in the
``examples`` directory. However, the ``test`` directory of the repository
contains tests of all the components of ``cppdlr``, and these can also serve as
useful examples (though they might not be as user-friendly as the examples in
the ``examples`` directory). Therefore, in the :ref:`list of other
capabilities<listofothercapabilities>` below, we list capabilities of ``cppdlr``
which are not currently covered by examples, and point to the relevant tests in
the ``test`` directory which can serve as examples of these capabilities. This
is a temporary measure, until we have a more comprehensive set of examples.


Example: form a DLR expansion via interpolation, and evaluate it in imaginary time and frequency
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This example follows the example program in the file
``examples/dlr_interpolation.cpp``. You should follow the code in that file as
you read this example. If you see a definition you do not know, or need to look
up a convention, you can find this information on the :ref:`background page<background>`.

We first include the header file ``cppdlr.hpp``, which is
necessary to use ``cppdlr`` functionality, and use the ``cppdlr`` namespace. We
then define an evaluator function, ``gfun``, for an imaginary time Green's
function. In this case, we take a simple example: a Green's function
corresponding to a spectral function which is a discrete sum of delta functions:

.. math::
   
   \rho(\omega) = \sum_{i=1}^N A_i \delta(\omega - a_i).

In this case, we have taken each :math:`A_i` to be a :math:`2 \times 2`
symmetric matrix. Using the Lehmann representation, defined on the
:ref:`background page<background>`, we see that this yields the following imaginary time
Green's function:

.. math::
   
   G(\tau) = \sum_{i=1}^N A_i K(\tau, a_i) \equiv \sum_{i=1}^N A_i \frac{e^{-\tau a_i}}{1+e^{-\beta a_i}}.

There is nothing special about this Green's function, except that it is
convenient for this example because it has a simple analytical form. We also
define an evaluator for the Green's function in fermionic Matsubara frequency
space, which, by direct Fourier transform, is given by

.. math::
   
   G(i \nu_n) = \sum_{i=1}^N A_i K(i \nu_n, a_i) \equiv \sum_{i=1}^N \frac{A_i}{i \nu_n - a_i}.

Next we move to the main program. We first define the 
the inverse temperature :math:`\beta`, the number of orbital indices, which in
this case is 2 since :math:`G` is a :math:`2 \times 2` matrix-valued function,
the DLR cutoff parameter :math:`\Lambda`, and the desired accuracy :math:`\epsilon` of our DLR
expansion. We note that we took all the :math:`a_i` above to be less than 1, so
the spectral width :math:`\omega_{\max}` of the Green's function is less than 1;
therefore, the DLR cutoff parameter :math:`\Lambda = \beta \omega_{\max}` can be
safely set to :math:`\beta`. If the spectral width is unknown, it is recommended
to converge results with respect to :math:`\Lambda`. After this, we set the
number of points at which we will test the accuracy of our DLR expansion, both
in imaginary time and Matsubara frequency.

We now begin to see some of the basic functionality of ``cppdlr``. We first
obtain the DLR frequencies :math:`\omega_l` by calling the function
``build_dlr_rf``, supplying the DLR cutoff parameter and tolerance as input
parameters. We obtain a vector of :math:`r = 31` DLR frequencies, which are
shown below for the given parameters. We note that although ``cppdlr`` works in
non-dimensionalized variables (e.g., we consider :math:`\tau \in [0,1]` rather
than :math:`\tau \in [0,\beta]`), we have converted back to the original
physical variables in all figures on this page.

.. image:: images/dlr_rf.png
   :width: 500px
   :align: center

We next obtain an object of type ``imtime_ops``. This class is responsible for
all imaginary time operations on Green's functions, such as interpolation,
fitting, and convolution, and given a particular set of DLR frequencies,
determined by :math:`\Lambda` and :math:`\epsilon`, you only need one of these.
The vector of DLR imaginary time grid nodes :math:`\tau_k` can be extracted from
this object using the ``get_itnodes`` method.

We next evaluate the Green's function at the DLR imaginary time grid nodes by
calling the evaluator function discussed above. In practice, you would supply
your own Green's function evaluator, which could involve a complicated program.
Below, we plot the Green's function, with the :math:`r = 31` DLR imaginary time
nodes indicated.

.. image:: images/gfun.png
   :width: 500px
   :align: center

Now that we have the values of the Green's function on the DLR imaginary time
grid, :math:`G(\tau_k)`, we can form its DLR expansion by obtaining its DLR
coefficients :math:`\widehat{g}_l` via the ``vals2coefs`` method of the
``imtime_ops`` object. We sometimes call this the interpolation step, since we
are interpolating the Green's function at the DLR nodes using an expansion in
the DLR basis functions :math:`K(\tau, \omega_l)`. In other words, we solve the
linear system

.. math::
   
   \sum_{l=1}^r K(\tau_k, \omega_l) \widehat{g}_l = G(\tau_k)

which constitutes an interpolation problem.

Having obtained the DLR expansion of :math:`G` (characterized by its DLR
coefficients :math:`\widehat{g}_l`), we can now evaluate it at any imaginary
time point :math:`\tau` by simply evaluating the DLR expansion:

.. math::
   
   G(\tau) \approx \sum_{l=1}^r K(\tau, \omega_l) \widehat{g}_l.

This is done using the ``coefs2eval`` method of the ``imtime_ops`` object. Here,
we evaluate the DLR expansion on an equispaced grid of :math:`\tau` points
generated by the function ``eqptsrel`` (this function generates the points in
the *relative* time format used by ``cppdlr``; please see :ref:`the imaginary
time point format section of the Background page<relativeformat>` for details). We also evaluate
the true Green's function, and compare the two. The pointwise error for the
top-left entry of the Green's function, :math:`G_00(\tau)`, is shown below.

.. image:: images/gfun_err_it.png
   :width: 500px
   :align: center

We see that the DLR expansion is correct to within the specified :math:`\epsilon
= 10^{-10}` tolerance. 

Since the Fourier transform of the DLR basis functions are known, we can
directly evaluate the DLR expansion of :math:`G` in the fermionic Matsubara
frequency space:

.. math::
   
   G(i \nu_n) \approx \sum_{l=1}^r K(i \nu_n, \omega_l) \widehat{g}_l.

To do this, we first construct an object of type ``imfreq_ops``. This class is
analogous to the ``imtime_ops`` class, but is responsible for all Matsubara
frequency operations. Here, we use its ``coefs2eval`` method to evaluate the DLR
expansion of :math:`G` at a large set of Matsubara frequencies, which in ``cppdlr``
are characterized by their index :math:`n`. Again comparing to the top-left
entry :math:`G_00(i \nu_n)` of the true Green's
function, we find agreement within the specified :math:`\epsilon = 10^{-10}`
tolerance.

.. image:: images/gfun_err_if.png
   :width: 500px
   :align: center


.. _listofexamples:

List of examples
-----------------

The ``examples`` directory contains the following example programs, which are
documented in detail in the files themselves.

- ``examples/dlr_interpolation.cpp``: form a DLR expansion via interpolation,
  and evaluate it in imaginary time and frequency. This example is described in
  detail above.

.. _listofothercapabilities:

List of other ``cppdlr`` capabilities
-------------------------------------

For ``cppdlr`` use cases which are not covered by examples in the ``examples`` directory,
relevant unit tests in the ``test`` directory can serve as useful examples. We
list several such use cases below.

- Obtain a DLR expansion by fitting to data in imaginary time: see the tests ``imtime_ops.fit_scalar``,
  ``imtime_ops.fit_matrix``, and ``imtime_ops.fit_matrix_cmplx`` in the file ``test/imtime_ops.cpp``. 
- Compute the convolution of two DLR expansions: see the tests 
  ``imtime_ops.convolve_scalar_real``, ``imtime_ops.convolve_scalar_cmplx``,
  ``imtime_ops.convolve_matrix_real``, and ``imtime_ops.convolve_matrix_cmplx``
  in the file ``test/imtime_ops.cpp``.
- Perform a "reflection" operation :math:`G(\tau) \mapsto G(\beta-\tau)` on a
  Green's function: see the test ``imtime_ops.refl_matrix`` in the file
  ``test/imtime_ops.cpp``.
- Compute the inner product of two DLR expansions: see the test
  ``imtime_ops.innerprod`` in the file ``test/imtime_ops.cpp``.
- Obtain a DLR expansion by interpolation on the DLR Matsubara frequency nodes:
  see the tests ``imfreq_ops.interp_scalar`` and ``imfreq_ops.interp_matrix`` in
  the file ``test/imfreq_ops.cpp``.
- Obtain symmetrized DLR grids, and obtain a DLR expansion by interpolation on
  these grids: see the tests ``imtime_ops.interp_matrix_sym_fer`` and
  ``imtime_ops.interp_matrix_sym_bos`` in the file ``test/imtime_ops.cpp`` for
  fermionic and bosonic Green's functions, respectively, on a symmetric
  imaginary time grid. See the tests ``imfreq_ops.interp_matrix_sym_fer`` and
  ``imfreq_ops.interp_matrix_sym_bos`` in the file ``test/imfreq_ops.cpp`` for
  fermionic and bosonic Green's functions, respectively, on a symmetric
  Matsubara frequency grid. All of these tests show how to obtain a symmetric
  set of DLR frequencies.
- Given a fixed self-energy, solve the Dyson equation in imaginary time to
  obtain the Green's function: see the tests ``dyson_it.dyson_vs_ed_real``,
  ``dyson_it.dyson_vs_ed_cmplx``, and ``dyson_it.dyson_bethe`` in the file
  ``test/dyson_it.cpp``.
- Solve the Dyson equation self-consistently in imaginary time, given an
  expression for the self-energy in terms of the Green's function: see the test
  ``dyson_it.dyson_bethe_fpi`` in the file ``test/dyson_it.cpp``.
