doc/install.rst, before:

.. highlight:: bash

.. _install:

Install app4triqs
*******************

Compiling app4triqs from source
===============================

.. note:: To guarantee reproducibility in scientific calculations we strongly recommend the use of a stable `release <https://github.com/TRIQS/triqs/releases>`_ of both TRIQS and its applications.

Installation steps
------------------

#. Download the source code of the latest stable version by cloning the ``TRIQS/app4triqs`` repository from GitHub::

     $ git clone https://github.com/TRIQS/app4triqs app4triqs.src

#. Create and move to a new directory where you will compile the code::

     $ mkdir app4triqs.build && cd app4triqs.build

#. In the build directory call cmake, including any additional custom CMake options, see below::

     $ cmake -DCMAKE_INSTALL_PREFIX=path_to_install_dir ../app4triqs.src

#. Compile the code, run the tests and install the application::

     $ make
     $ make test
     $ make install

Versions
--------

To use a particular version, go into the directory with the sources, and look at all available versions::

     $ cd app4triqs.src && git tag

Checkout the version of the code that you want::

     $ git checkout 2.1.0

and follow steps 2 to 4 above to compile the code.

Custom CMake options
--------------------

The compilation of ``app4triqs`` can be configured using CMake-options::

    cmake ../app4triqs.src -DOPTION1=value1 -DOPTION2=value2 ...

+-----------------------------------------------------------------+-----------------------------------------------+
| Options                                                         | Syntax                                        |
+=================================================================+===============================================+
| Specify an installation path other than path_to_triqs           | -DCMAKE_INSTALL_PREFIX=path_to_app4triqs      |
+-----------------------------------------------------------------+-----------------------------------------------+
| Build in Debugging Mode                                         | -DCMAKE_BUILD_TYPE=Debug                      |
+-----------------------------------------------------------------+-----------------------------------------------+
| Disable testing (not recommended)                               | -DBuild_Tests=OFF                             |
+-----------------------------------------------------------------+-----------------------------------------------+
| Build the documentation                                         | -DBuild_Documentation=ON                      |
+-----------------------------------------------------------------+-----------------------------------------------+

Commit message:

Adjust app4triqs skeleton for cppdlr

doc/install.rst, after:

.. highlight:: bash

.. _install:

Install cppdlr
*******************

Compiling cppdlr from source
===============================

.. note:: To guarantee reproducibility in scientific calculations we strongly recommend the use of a stable `release <https://github.com/TRIQS/triqs/releases>`_ of both TRIQS and its applications.

Installation steps
------------------

#. Download the source code of the latest stable version by cloning the ``TRIQS/cppdlr`` repository from GitHub::

     $ git clone https://github.com/TRIQS/cppdlr cppdlr.src

#. Create and move to a new directory where you will compile the code::

     $ mkdir cppdlr.build && cd cppdlr.build

#. In the build directory call cmake, including any additional custom CMake options, see below::

     $ cmake -DCMAKE_INSTALL_PREFIX=path_to_install_dir ../cppdlr.src

#. Compile the code, run the tests and install the application::

     $ make
     $ make test
     $ make install

Versions
--------

To use a particular version, go into the directory with the sources, and look at all available versions::

     $ cd cppdlr.src && git tag

Checkout the version of the code that you want::

     $ git checkout 2.1.0

and follow steps 2 to 4 above to compile the code.

Custom CMake options
--------------------

The compilation of ``cppdlr`` can be configured using CMake-options::

    cmake ../cppdlr.src -DOPTION1=value1 -DOPTION2=value2 ...

+-----------------------------------------------------------------+-----------------------------------------------+
| Options                                                         | Syntax                                        |
+=================================================================+===============================================+
| Specify an installation path other than path_to_triqs           | -DCMAKE_INSTALL_PREFIX=path_to_cppdlr      |
+-----------------------------------------------------------------+-----------------------------------------------+
| Build in Debugging Mode                                         | -DCMAKE_BUILD_TYPE=Debug                      |
+-----------------------------------------------------------------+-----------------------------------------------+
| Disable testing (not recommended)                               | -DBuild_Tests=OFF                             |
+-----------------------------------------------------------------+-----------------------------------------------+
| Build the documentation                                         | -DBuild_Documentation=ON                      |
+-----------------------------------------------------------------+-----------------------------------------------+
